The Return of Tom Thumb (and the Seven League Boots)

Once upon a time in a land far far away lived a woodcutter and his wife and seven children. They were poor and illiterate living to survive each day and always surprised by winter. One such winter, an especially cold winter the woodcutter and his wife were both ever so cold and oh so hungry, so cold and so hungry they feared they would see their children starve to death. Unable to sleep, wrought with troubles and certain of the grim they decided the best of the worst solutions was to lead their children to the deep forest where they could die out of earshot. Perhaps then there may be enough food for the both the woodcutter and his wife to survive instead.

In the morning the father took the seven children to the forest to collect kindling. The seven children did what their father said from fear of being thrashed. “Come on boys” he said and they all followed. But Tom Thumb, the youngest and smallest of the children noticed some things were unusual. It was unusual to collect kindling so early. Why were all the children going? Usually just a few of them went, and they were not talking the usual route. However Tom kept silent as was often the best way when dealing with father..

Tom dwelled on the unusual but also had other troubles. Because the others were bigger they would often be far in front leaving Tom behind. Without the familiar route and with so many siblings out at once Tom decided to leave a trail to follow home, if needed later to get home. Tom searched all pockets but the only thing to be found was a stale crust of bread. Needing something the crust was crumbled up and Tom left a trail of breadcrumbs.

Father slips away at dusk
Children realise they have been left (or think the father was eaten by a bear)
Gets colder
Tom climbs a tree and sees a house

Giants house
Wife lets them in but begs them not to wake the sleeping giant 
Giants wife identifies Tom Thumb as a girl. 

Giant wakes perseus the ‘brothers’. Sleeps and Tom steals their boots

Returns home with the golden goose?
