The Return of Tom Thumb (and the Seven League Boots)

Once upon a time in a land far far away lived a woodcutter and his wife and seven children. They were poor and illiterate living to survive each day and always surprised by winter. One such winter, an especially cold winter the woodcutter and his wife were both ever so cold and oh so hungry. So cold and so hungry they feared they would starve to death. Unable to sleep, wrought with troubles and certain of the grim they decided the best of the worst solutions was to lead their children to the deep forest where they could die out of earshot.

In the morning the father took the seven children to the forest to collect kindling. The seven children did what their father said from fear of being thrashed. “Come on boys” he said and they all followed. But Tom Thumb, the youngest and smallest of the children noticed some things were unusual. It was unusual to collect kindling so early. Why were all the children going? Usually just a few of them went, and they were not talking the usual route. However Tom kept silent as was often the best way when dealing with father..

Tom dwelt on the unusual but also had other troubles. Because the others were bigger they would often be far in front leaving Tom behind. Without the familiar route and with so many siblings out at once Tom decided to leave a trail to follow home. Tom searched all pockets but the only thing to be found was a crust of stale bread. Needing something the crust was crumbled up so Tom could leave breadcrumbs at key locations to be able to navigate back.

They walked and walked, and walked. And they walked. And they walked till they thought they could walk no more. Toms had to leave sparcer and sparcer breadcrumb clues and they had almost all but run out when dusk came. Suddenly one of the children noticed somehow, none of the children quite knew how, but their father was nowhere to be seen. 

Tom didn't call out for their father like the others, instead rushed to look at the breadcrumb clues. The sparce breadcrumbs had been eaten quickly by birds and there was no trace. Turning round seeing the others Tom called out to the tallest and oldest brother Kim.

"I have a plan" Tom said

"To find father?" Kim replied, hoping

Tom as the smallest was first to be forgotten and did not put hope on others especially their father. But the others did. Kim the oldest had most to do with father. Tom had noticed all unusual points and more suspected an uncomfortable possibility.

"Someone climb a tree and look for a light. We can seek shelter" Tom sidelined the question

One of the brothers quickly climbed a tree although it was tall and they could only just speak by a shout. 


//Giants house
//Wife lets them in but begs them not to wake the sleeping giant 
//Giants wife identifies Tom Thumb as a girl. 

//Giant wakes perseus the ‘brothers’. Sleeps and Tom steals their boots

//Tom goes to hide behind a giant golden orb but when she leans on it it shrinks untill it fits in her hand. She catches it so it doesnt bounch on the floor and make a sound, and finds another hiding place. This golden orb is later stolen by the fox
//Returns home with the golden goose ?
